Okay.
You were a captain in the Army Reserve up in
Wisconsin then? No, I never was a First Lieutenant
in the either the Reserves or the National Guard,
but think nothing of that. standing operating
procedure in both the Reserves and the National
Guard. Well in Wisconsin, first you were in Texas
you were in the Army Reserve and then you switched
to the National Guard in New Mexico and now when you
came to Wisconsin were you in the Army Reserve or
were you in the National Guard of Wisconsin? I
reverted to the Army Reserve. Okay, so you're in
the Army Reserve, okay. and I pretty well ignored
the Army Reserve, except
in those days, and still I suppose, a reserve
officer had to show some interest in his status as a
reserve officer in order to have his commission
extended beyond five years. Now, if he ignored the
fact that he hadn't qualified himself for further
extension, within the next five years he could do
something that would manifest enough interest
and participation to be commissioned for another
five years and available for call. Well to make a
long story short, while I was at, I left New Mexico
for a job in
Michigan College of Mines. Well that was a new job
and I ignored the reserves
for two years, the two years that I was there. I just
didn't take any correspondence courses. I
refused to go to any of their summer sessions, two
weeks of summer tours. I waived it because I had
enough credits from correspondence courses to
get me over the tide. So by taking correspondence
courses, I stayed in the Reserve Corps, stayed on
the active duty list, eligible for call
until I got involved in the National Guard. Now, I
became acquainted with this lawyer White when I
was finishing a course on a
rather elementary course. All of those courses
were elementary as hell. and in topographic
reading of maps and the topographic use of maps,
and they were in topographics. So, I took a
correspondence course on it, got a passing grade
on everything, so I ran into the captain and I says,
I just finished the course and the correspondents
said, you guys have to take it. I'll help you out on
it. I've got there.
I've got there, done the course, got my solutions,
got their solutions, Brack. I says, if you want to
use this as a training aid with your troops, why,
you can have it. Well, he says, that's fine, I
didn't know who you were, you must say the
lieutenant in the guard in the reserves. I says,
that's all I am and that's all I expect to be.
Because I've got, I'm working on the side projects
and teaching school, doing all I can. He says,
well, he says, thanks. So, I didn't know it at the
time, but he was trying to get rid of the job of
captain to
give more attention to his law practice and he was
really doing, setting the world on fire as a lawyer
and justly so. He was a brilliant man.
So
when he went up to the Adjutant General and told him
that he wanted to get rid of the job, he said, well
who's your first lieutenant?
Well can he take over? Yeah, he can take over. So
they gave the second, the first lieutenant, he was
an optometrist. in town and a darn good man and a
good soldier.
He came up, took the physical examination and so
forth, and he busted the physical. Now a lot of
people think that you can do, get away with
anything in the Guard because they do do things
when it's necessary. that is sometimes not
according to the rules. Alright, here was a guy
that had busted the examination for captain.
Well, where's the second lieutenant? Well, it
just so happened that week the second lieutenant
had been arrested for bootlegging.
It was a mild operation. I don't know why they
strained at such and that as that, but they
strained at it and says, no, we got to get somebody
else. So
then the
lawyer told him, said, well, there's one other guy
in town that could take it over and make do an even
better job than I have done. He says, bragging on
me. He says he could take it, but he says he's busy as
hell. He's working at the college and he's nursing
a PhD project. Says he'll turn it down flat. Well he
says, let me talk to him. He says, well you come up
and talk to him.
So the accident general came up and talked to me,
and he was a very persuasive fella. Are you taking
at the moment? Mm-hmm. Would you try to talk to us?
He talked to you. Oh, not in the heat, but I just...
Yeah, he was... I cut that air conditioning too far
back in the night. So, see...
He was a... This accident general was... little
short of being a genius himself.
Talk about a guy that could juggle and keep several
balls in the air. He was one of them. In fact, he's
the man that invented, thought up, and helped to
create the CCC. Civilian. Yeah, a conservation
clerk. He dreamed the whole thing up and organized
it to put on in Wisconsin. And then the then
governor was the younger brother of the senator
from Wisconsin. So he showed the structure and the
plan and everything to Senator La Follette. And
then they got ahold of the cabinet, and I think
about three of the cabinet members modestly
claimed credit for putting the whole thing,
dreaming it up and putting it on the road. Not to
mention the congressmen that put up the money. So
the CCC was a product of Ralph Emmel. I double
M-E-L-L. He was a Scandinavian son of a
Scandinavian family down close to La Crosse. And
he must have convinced you then to become the
captain. Well, he himself had been promoted
through the ranks.
He came back from Europe where he had been a first
lieutenant or captain in the Yankee Division. He
had gotten separated from the, well he went in
there from college, Corps of Cadets at Madison and
went to Officer Candidate School. He came out of
the Corps of Captains and At a very young age he was
picked for adjutant general by a very fine and
sensible governor that we had back in that era. And
the job was his until he was 64 years old. That was
written into the law. They didn't believe that
every governor that came along should have a right
to name is Adjutant General. So they just took care
of it by saying this is a job that a man holds to a
certain age. That's the retiring age of the
regular army at that time. And so he inherited the
job and I think he had gone through the grades
rather rapidly and at that time was a Brigadier
General. and that's the general of the state. And
he was a fellow that knew how to break rules
logically and successfully. And he could do it. So
he convinced you to become the captain? He talked
me into it. And then did you go to summer camps
during the 1930s in Wisconsin? Yeah, I went to the
first summer camp after I was captain, and
White helped me pick.
White, by the way, in order to get from under the
military load, White, when he vacated the job as
captain,
Emil talked him into accepting a staff job as first
lieutenant back in the guard. He says, this way you
won't have anything to do except be in camp. And he
says, you don't even have to take correspondence
courses. You just be in camp.
We need people like you on the list when it comes to
mobilization.
quirk of fate, White became my lieutenant colonel
and happily served and did a hell of a good job on
mobilization. So things,
the National Guard can break regulations with the
regular army any damn time they want to if they, if
it's a sensible thing to do and it works out. But if
it doesn't work out, the guard will find it out
before the regular army does. And it'll be
corrected. When did you start mobilizing, in
1940? That date, let you read there. October 15,
1940. That's when I started my five year leave of
absence. And all of the guards were mobilized at
that time in Wisconsin or just select
individuals? No, it's not practical.
It's all the railroads, the railroads right today
and the highway equipment couldn't stand the
strain of mobilizing all the guard. as of a certain
week, normally in the autumn, or whenever it had to
be. But, so the War Department and the Guard and the
regular Army had learned a lot in World War I.
They learned that the old square division,
which in World War I had 29,000 officers and men.
Now, when we got automobiles, and the reason we got
trucks to pull the cannon and trucks to carry the
ammunition and became liberated of the horses.
Now the regular army clung to the horses for at
least 10 of their regiments of artillery. As late
as 1942, I think we had a few horse regiments. Yes,
the horse-drawn battalions were in the, all in,
had simmered down to one division. That was the
cavalry division that was still patrolling the
border. A company, a troop or two near Del Rio
there.
Then the division headquarters in San Antonio.
And then they had, I think the end of the other end of
the line, they had usually a Negro regiment down in
Brownsville.
There was a cavalry out there. Then out the other
way, they went to California. with detachments of
horse cavalry here and there. That's the time of
the Columbus raid, for example. So they couldn't
take the strain. Yeah. And when they mobilized you
and made you a colonel, what assignment did they
give you? What were you in charge of? What was I in
charge of? Well,
the batteries of the 120th Field Artillery
Regiment.
were scattered in small towns.
And so,
when the time came for us to be mobilized, we
converged at Camp McCoy. The way I know of that is in
Wisconsin. Yeah, well that's the traditional
training ground. It's now Fort McCoy, they call
it. That merely gives it a more euphonious
permanent status, I guess. Still the same McCoy.
And did you start training there? No, we didn't
start training there. Each battery came down with
its own motorized equipment. Oh, I see. Now, the
Guard has been entirely motorized, except the
cavalry regiments of the Guard. And there was a
cavalry division of horse cavalry. When, at the
time of the big mobilization, But
our mobilization was very simple.
It was, men were notified, we received recruits if
anybody wanted to go, and we had a vacancy. Well,
that was a time where you, that was one time in
recruiting where you could pick and choose.
Because the minute that the word is out, guard in
this small town was going out. By then, a lot of the
young bucks that had been too lazy to participate
in the guard say, well, if they're going to do
something, it'd be interesting. Yeah, sure, I'd
like to be in. So we, each unit in each town had a
waiting list. Went off and left people that would
have been listed if there had been a vacancy. So...
We went in our own rolling equipment.
And plus, a certain number of people could go with,
usually officers are
well-known
non-commissioned officers, known to be highly
reliable. Only those could have their own car, and
their car couldn't go with the caravan. But they
had to be where the caravan was to be at the end of the
day's march. So we had individual batteries, went
individually to Camp McCoy.
The 1st Battalion was with modifications here and
there for geographical reasons. The 1st
Battalion moved out 24 hours ahead of the 2nd
Battalion. And where the 1st Battalion stayed
their first night, and let us say
Well, let us say the Illinois National Guard
Armory or Drill Grounds or something in
Rockford. Rockford is right south of Beloit. Yes.
Rockford, Illinois. Yeah, I think now they went as
far as Rockford, Illinois. But we stayed all night
at McCoy. The next day we lined up and drove, went as
a military serial, motor serial, and it was a motor
march from there to Rockford. We moved into the
facilities that they used, stoves, sleeping
space in the armory, all that stuff. We moved out of
that nest and followed the other one, I think the
next nest was somewhere down around Memphis, or
Cairo, Illinois, somewhere down there. And the
next one was in Vicksburg, and then from Vicksburg
to the final rendezvous at supposed to be Camp
Livingston. at Louisiana,
that town north of Alexandria.
They had a National Guard training field and
encampment installation for the Louisiana
National Guard. We moved into the 32nd Division,
moved into that place, had to substitute until
they got Camp Livingston built. Now the artillery
brigade was billeted.
The division overflowed the facilities actually
at Camp Beauregard. So the artillery brigade with
the 120th part of it, a third of it, had to go out to a
kind of a hill rising from the marshes around it. I
think they called it Blueberry Hill. And on its
slopes and ridges, we went into what became known
as Camp Disregard. We
were in Camp Disregard. for four months while they
were finishing Camp Livingston. And of course
when Livingston was finished, as fast as they
finished it, we moved over there and finally the
entire brigade of the square division and the
entire square division was billeted in Camp
Livingston. and it was from Camp Livingston, that
the 32nd Division was alerted for overseas
movement. And now I know that I'm going to say
something that somebody's going to dispute. But
the first division to be alerted for an overseas
movement after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, when
it was a known fact that we were in up to our eyes, the
first division alerted to go overseas was the 32nd
Division. And the alert and the man who selected it
was none other than Lieutenant
General
He's a German. As a matter of fact, his nickname in
the Army was Herman the German, but he was really
one of the most brilliant Army officers I've ever
met.
His name will come to me in a minute.
Where was he assigned? He was commander of the 1st
Army Area. And the 1st Army Area consisted of the
consolidation of two corps areas.
The general that I'm trying to think of is the
general that MacArthur
wired, demanded. He didn't,
when MacArthur dealt with the chief of staff
that day, he didn't ask him to do something, he
didn't tell him what to do. He told him that he
wanted
the general that was out there replaced by this guy
that was in the campaign of his name.
Kroger. Yeah. His nickname, it made him mad when he
heard it. And it's a nickname that he had that he
didn't like, so I'm reluctant to write it into the
record here. But his nickname was Herman the
German. Now that had, he was, Kruger was really one
of the outstanding generals of this war.
Especially out in the Pacific here. Out in the
Pacific. And
he was over age. The chief of staffs, I
have to stop and think of a lot of these old army
names because they get mixed up.
The chief of staff
had written in his requirements. In fact, the
chief of staff...
George Marshall. Yeah, how in the hell can you
forget that name? It's just when you want to use it.
George Marshall created an age
scale and he had decided that no general officer
would go overseas in command of troops
that was over 60 years of age. Because the
colonel's list was literally cluttered up with
old men just waiting to become 64. That was his
logic. So there'd be no general in command of
troops and I might go over there as an inspector or
something like that. But to exercise a command, he
had to be a major general in command of a division.
He had to be at least
under 61. Now,
to the best of my knowledge,
Krueger is the only man that did go overseas to a
command assignment, battlefield assignments. I
think he's the only one on the list. Now anybody can
check it out if they want to by getting the officer
list of that era and whatnot. Where did Kruger send
you?
Kruger didn't send me. I was detached from the
division to take an assignment in the 5th Corps as
commander of another regiment.
So the fellow that transferred me out was a
lieutenant general.
See their faces. Daley.
Daley was a lieutenant general and commanding the
fifth corps. And the
fifth corps at that time was a very, very big list of
troops.
The word corps is a rather flexible term. It is,
consists of a corps headquarters,
an artillery brigade, and
two or three separate regiments, such as medical
regiments and engineer regiments, and then
sundry battalions, and finally you get down to a
company of military police, which is probably the
smallest command in the Corps.
So, to get back to the basic question, the 32nd
Division,
the day after Pearl Harbor,
Well, I think during the
bombardment of Pearl Harbor,
the San Antonio man, Herman the German,
called
Major General commanding the 32nd Division and
the two brigadiers and also the similar ranks of
the 37th Division.
Now it was a square division like we were,
but it was over in Alabama at Camp Shelby, and
Shelby was in his Army area, so he had Those two,
those six officers and I don't know from how many
other divisions, if any, he may have called.
But the Brigadier General of Infantry that was
included in the call from the 32nd and our Major
General that was in the same call,
their stories jived as to what happened. They went
down there and
Krueger said, well gentlemen, now there were some
other officers there, but they could have been
staff officers. He had quite a little huddle. but I
know those two divisions were there represented
because I knew all six of them personally because
later on I was right next door to this 37th division
while I was over there as a regimental commander
because I got one of the regiments that was in the
field artillery brigade
Now they came back and old Herman the German or
Kruger says to them, I'm sorry to tell you
gentlemen, but you and you and you and you and
everybody except the major general commanding
the 37th division who was a young state engineer of
Ohio, he says, you fellows are out of age for
overseas duty. And he says you will be retained in
the service, you will be given assignments in the
troop training program that is now looming ahead
of us as something
phenomenal. Says instead of two million men
overseas, that we did in World War I, we've got to
think in terms of millions on two fronts. For the
first time in history, we're on the two front war.
And he says, we'll need all of you. But for field
service, he has this wage scale, this age scale.
And we've been enforcing it, published it, and
enforcing it on colonels, lieutenant colonels,
majors, and captains. And he says, the chief of
staff and their studies have set up this age scale,
and you've been weeding out your overage
captains, you've been weeding out your overage
age majors and all of you have at least one or two
colonels that are over 60. It says as a matter of
fact the top age for a colonel is 58 and as you know
the top age for a lieutenant colonel is I think it's
52 yeah and the over age limit for a major is 48, and
says now that age list in some of your divisions and
regiments has not been clearly, uh, shaken out.
Says these people are over age, are to be retained
here as trainers. But says these, the bunch that
are going out now, the first echelons overseas.
This is the age scale. Well, you were well within
that age for a colonel. So, that meant to you that
you were going overseas. Sure. Incidentally, all
the colonels of artillery went overseas in grade,
in the 32nd Division, because we had already
zealously, I had The age and grade problem had
already been solved in the 120th Field Artillery
when the bombardment came and the Soho crowd had
been equally zealous in getting down to the
nitty-gritty and complying with it. Now you say,
well who made up that? Who says that a guy that's 42
and just mediocre should be retained and a guy
that's 47 that's twice as healthy and well and
happy and a better field officer. Why should he be,
well maybe he shouldn't go to be a good trainer, but
why should he be Why should this more or less weak
sister here be retained because he's 42 and got a
chronic something wrong with him that impairs his
efficiency? You have to keep this guy, but you have
to lose that guy. I've never solved that and I don't
believe it was soundly executed, but Did you go
into the first campaign, into our North African
campaign? You were in the European Theater. We
were in the European Theater when
the people that went out on this first pickup
to get back to the meeting down there, he said that
he was, they were sending over heavily reinforced
corps, he told his generals, after he broke the
news to it, who among them was going to stay in his
assignment and who wasn't. He says the,
you will go back to your units and triangularize
them. Well, that's no big job. The entire
triangular division comes out of one square
division. In other words, you slough off, you're
sloughing off units instead of men. So, he says
you're to go back and triangularize yourself from
a square division of about 23,000 men down to a
triangular rise division of about 1,500 men,
15,000 men, officers and men, and says having done
that, and of course you'll picture a vest and keep
all you can that you think ought to be going out in
this advanced corps, this reinforced corps will
move without delay, that's to mean as far as you
can, as soon as you can get the stuff on the
railroad, as soon as the railroads can haul you and
all that, but you will proceed without delay to
ports of embarkation in the area of Boston, and
after you've slept off these surplus units,
picked out the best you've got left over out of the
part of that. And it'll also consist of at least
four divisions. It'll be, its code name will be
Force Magnet. So you can just forget the core name.
It'll be Force Magnet. And Magnet will have in it at
least three or four or maybe five divisions with
appropriate number of non-divisional troops to
make up a big corps or maybe two corps and the two
corps would be you see an army is two or more corps So
you debarked, or you left then for Boston? No, you
don't, as he says, you don't move this all at once.
First, you got to stuff off these other, the
surplus regiments and battalions and companies,
and you set them over here in one part of the
reservation, and get this other new division,
triangularized division. It takes 24 hours of
staff discussion and whatnot to get the list. Then
shifting them around on the camp area so that
they'll begin working as a unit in their training
and whatnot while they're getting, we knew it was
Christmas time at the end So, this is Christmas 42?
42. You can't get in a railroad haulage at that
time. It's all tied up with commerce and passenger
traffic. Well, when did you leave for Europe now?
I didn't get out. This core artillery brigade was
toward the bottom of the list. It was right after
the last full division. So, and my regiment within
that artillery brigade had an especially high
priority rate so that it would be the first
regiment to go out of the brigade. So I didn't, with
all the...